Update tidb-roadmap.md (#19350)
pingcap/docs: tidb-roadmap.md

            <b>Cascades Optimizer Framework</b>
            <br />Introduces a mature, advanced optimizer framework, expanding the capabilities of the existing optimizer.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Scalable DDL Execution Framework</b>
            <br />Provides a parallel DDL execution framework to improve the performance and stability of DDL operations.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Increased TiCDC Scalability</b>
            <br />Updated TiCDC architecture delivers increased scalability and performance for change data capture use cases.
          </li>
          <br />
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>Table-Level Load Balancing</b>
            <br />Optimizes data scheduling in PD based on workload distribution across Regions for each table.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>System Table Performance Optimization</b>
            <br />Enhances query speed and reduces overhead for system tables with large data volumes.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Enhance the Scalability of Region Meta Storage</b>

>             <br />Migrate region meta storage from PD to TiKV, allowing the storage layer to scale infinitely and easily.

Reviewer: Split a dedicated stateless Router Service(Read/Write of region metadata), and migrate region metadata storage from PD to TiKV, the metadata storage layer will scale limitless and easily.

>             <br />Migrate region meta storage from PD to TiKV, allowing the storage layer to scale infinitely and easily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <br />Splits a dedicated stateless Router Service (Read/Write of region metadata), and migrates region metadata storage from PD to TiKV. The metadata storage layer will scale limitless and easily.
```

>             <br />Splits a dedicated stateless Router Service (Read/Write of region metadata), and migrates region metadata storage from PD to TiKV. The metadata storage layer will scale limitless and easily.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Splits a dedicated stateless router service (read/write of region metadata) and migrates region metadata storage from PD to TiKV. The metadata storage layer will scale limitlessly and easily.
```

            <br />Simplifies creating and managing large numbers of execution plans to stabilize performance.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Improved Resource Group Control for Complex SQL (GA)</b>
            <br />Monitors RU usage of complex queries mid-execution to minimize system impact.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Automatic Resource Group Switching for Runaway Queries (GA)</b>
            <br />Detects runaway queries and redirects them to designated resource groups with set limits.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Limit Memory Usage for Schema Metadata (GA)</b>
            <br />Enhances stability in large-scale clusters by capping memory consumption for schema metadata.
          </li>
          <br />
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>Robust and Resilient Backup</b>
            <br />Reduces memory-related issues during backup processes, ensuring dependable data protection and availability.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Optimized Memory Management with Disk Spilling</b>

>             <br />Allows operators like HashAgg, Sort, and Join to spill to disk, reducing memory load and preventing out-of-memory (OOM) issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Allows operators such as HashAgg, Sort, and Join to spill to disk, reducing memory load and preventing out-of-memory (OOM) issues.
```

          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Sharing Plan Cache across Sessions (GA)</b>
            <br />Shares execution plan cache across sessions in the same TiDB instance, optimizing memory usage.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Resource Group Quota Management (GA)</b>
            <br />Dynamically adjusts resource limits for Burstable resource groups, fully utilizing available resources without impacting other quotas.
          </li>
          <br />
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>Adaptive Resource Group</b>
            <br />Automatically adjusts Request Unit (RU) settings in resource groups based on past execution patterns.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Enhanced Memory Protection</b>

>             <br />Monitors memory usage across all components to prevent operations that might impact system stability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Monitors memory usage across all components to prevent operations that might affect system stability.
```

          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Automatic SQL Binding</b>
            <br />Analyzes SQL performance metrics to automatically create bindings, stabilizing execution plans for transactional processing.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Multi-Versioned Statistics</b>
            <br />Allows you to view and restore previous statistics versions after updates.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Distributed Statistics Collection</b>
            <br />Enables parallel statistics collection across multiple TiDB nodes to boost efficiency.
          </li>
          <br />
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>Effortless Operations and Intelligent Observability</b>
        <br />Simplify management with proactive monitoring and insights to optimize performance and ensure smooth operations
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>Reliable Query Termination (GA)</b>
            <br />Instantly terminates running SQL statements and frees resources in TiDB and TiKV.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>

>             <b>Permissioned Resource Group Switching (GA)</b>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <b>Access Control for Resource Group Switching (GA)</b>
```

            <br />Restricts resource group switching to authorized users, preventing resource misuse.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>CPU Time Observation for TiDB and TiKV (GA)</b>
            <br />Adds TiDB and TiKV CPU time metrics to statements and slow logs, enabling quick identification of statements causing TiDB or TiKV CPU spikes.
          </li>
          <br />
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>Customizable Statistics Collection (GA)</b>

>             <br />Allows tailored statistics strategies for specific tables, adjusting parameters like health and parallelism.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Allows tailored statistics strategies for specific tables, adjusting parameters such as health and concurrency.
```

          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Workload Repository (GA)</b>
            <br />Stores workload stats and real-time data for improved troubleshooting and analysis.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Automated Index Advisor (GA)</b>
            <br />Automatically analyzes SQL statements to recommend index optimizations, including suggestions for creating or dropping indexes.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Standardized Time Model (GA)</b>

>             <br />Establishes a unified SQL execution time model to help identify database load sources through logs and cluster metrics, pinpointing problematic nodes and statements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Establishes a unified SQL execution time model to help identify database load sources through statement summary tables, logs, and cluster metrics, pinpointing problematic nodes and statements.
```

          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>TiFlash CPU Time Monitoring (GA)</b>

>             <br />Adds TiFlash CPU time metrics to statements and slow logs, enabling quick identification of statements that cause CPU spikes in TiFlash.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <br />Adds TiFlash CPU time metrics to statement summary tables and slow logs, enabling quick identification of statements that cause CPU spikes in TiFlash.
```

> - These are non-exhaustive plans and are subject to change. 
> - Features might differ per service subscriptions.

## Rolling roadmap highlights

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Category</th>
      <th>End of CY24 release</th>
      <th>Mid of CY25 release</th>
      <th>Future releases</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody valign="top">
    <tr>
      <td>
        <b>Unmatched Scalability and Peak Performance</b>
        <br />Deliver massive scalability and faster performance to support larger workloads, optimize resource utilization, and ensure superior responsiveness.
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>In-memory caching in TiKV</b>
            <br />TiKV maintains recent versions of data in memory to reduce redundant MVCC scans, thus improving performance.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Adaptive Parallelism for Stats Collection (GA)</b>
            <br />Dynamically adjusts parallelism and concurrency based on hardware and node count, accelerating statistics collection.
          </li>
          <br />
          <li>
            <b>Faster Database Restores</b>

>             <br />Reduces recovery time for full database and point-in-time restores (PITR).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <br />Reduces recovery time for full database and Point in Time Recovery (PITR).
```
